---
layout: menu
title: Vision and strategy
Description: Mission, goals and strategy.
menu: 70
---

= NeIC Mission, Vision and Strategy =

=== Vision (where) ===
The vision of NeIC is to become a global role model for cross-border distributed and sustainable e-infrastructure services.

=== Strategy 2020 (how) ===
Enhance the productivity of researchers in the Nordic region beyond national efforts through new services, pooling competencies and sharing the resources of national e-infrastructure providers. Strengthen partnerships and prospects for long-term funding through active stakeholder dialogue to promote sustainable services.

=== Focus areas (what) ===
Pool competences:
* Map skills, identify and prioritise needs
* Establish NeIC and cross-border training programmes
* Make NeIC more attractive to competent personnel

Share resources:
* Launch pilot projects to establish ambition levels
* Create framework agreement (scope, CPU/storage)
* Establish enabling processes and technologies

Secure long-term funding
* Map funding sources, modalities and application mechanisms
* Agree on total funding and share from each funding source
* Adapt to unaligned funding periods

Strengthen stakeholder dialogue
* Map stakeholders and partnerships
* Create engagement plan (frequency, means)
* Implement stakeholder and partnership monitoring (incl. surveys)

=== Mission (why) ===
Accelerate development and provisioning of cost-effective, best-in-class e-infrastructure services beyond national capabilities.

=== Values (guiding our work) ===
Motivated by providing added value to researchers and engaging actively with our stakeholders. Open, reliable and continuously striving to improve in our work.

See also [https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/e/e9/151200-NeIC_Strategy-1Pager-final.pdf 2016-2020 strategy 1 pager] and [https://wiki.neic.no/wiki/NeIC_2016-2020_strategy_implementation_plan 2016- 2020 strategy implementation plan]

