---
title: Alumni
---

= {{ page.title }} =

=== Magnus Jonsson, SGAS maintenance and development project, 1st instance ===
The work Magnus has done on maintaining and developing SGAS under the NeIC umbrella has been highly appreciated in Sweden, Norway and Finland and of course also NeIC internally in the Nordic Tier-1. One aspect within the project has been to provide advanced support for other development projects interested to use or interface with SGAS. This has proven to be very beneficial for the SAMS project and has allowed this project to focus on other things. NeIC will continue to maintain SGAS also in the future. From his position as system developer at Umeå University, High Performance Computing Center North (HPC2N), Magnus currently continues in the new joint SUPR/SAMS project and it is not impossible that he will continue to submit patches to SGAS even in the future.

=== Samuel Lampa ===
Samuel has worked in the Tryggve project team as a software developer participating for example in the secure data transfer tool development. He continues to work at Swedish Bioinformatics Infrastructure NBIS as a systems developer, developing infrastructure, and tools for things like automated storage (iRODS) graphical user interfaces, and workflow and data management; with possibly returning into the Tryggve team in the future.

=== Teemu Kemppainen ===
M.Sc. Teemu Kemppainen is since 2014 living in Karlsruhe in southern Germany working as project manager for international companies. His specialities are research information management and recently urban transport solutions. Originally from Finland, Teemu started the B2Share Nordic project at NeIC while working at CSC-IT Center for Science.

=== Leif Nixon, Security Officer ===
With over 10 years of experience in IT security, Leif Nixon was involved with the NDGF Tier-1 since its inception. During his time at the National Supercomputer Centre (NSC) at Linköping University, Sweden, Leif Nixon acted as Security Officer for the NDGF and then NeIC, as well as for the Swedish national grid infrastructure. At this time he also headed the incident response task force for the European Grid Infrastructure (EGI). After his engagement with NeIC, Nixon joined the product security team at RedHat.

=== Karan Singh, Tryggve Staff member ===

Karan Singh worked as Systems Specialist CSC-IT Center for Science, Finland and was a member of the Tryggve project team. He has over 8 years of experience in variety of storage and Unix systems and holds Masters in Computer Science. Karan's main focus was to implement a new class of storage offering known as cloud storage for CSC cloud services. He helped in successful implementation of cloud storage for block and object storage needs in ePouta and cPouta clouds. Karan has authored two books "Learning Ceph”," Ceph Cookbook" on cloud storage technology Ceph and he is also the technical reviewer for the third book “Mastering Ceph". He worked in Tryggve project as a staff member from Finland node since the start of the project where he contributed in ePouta cloud service and other tryggve technical tasks. After working for CSC, Karan has joined Red Hat as Senior Storage Architect.

=== Gard Thomassen, Tryggve staff member ===

Gard Thomassen, PhD, Section manager for the Research Services group at the University Centre for IT at the University of Oslo. Gard was the Project leader for the TSD (Services for Sensitive Data) project at USIT. Gard worked in the Tryggve project team at the start of the project, and has moved since that into a role in the project Reference Group.

=== Jon Kerr Nilsen ===

Jon Kerr Nilsen is located at the University of Oslo, [http://www.usit.uio.no/english/ University Center for Information Technology]. He has been involved in development of the NorduGrid ARC middleware for several years and is currently acting as ARC release manager in addition to doing development tasks for the NDGF Tier-1.

Nilsen holds a PhD in High Energy Physics and was acting as deputy leader of the development work group during the EMI EU-project.

=== Dejan Vitlacil ===
Dejan Vitlacil is employed at the [http://www.pdc.kth.se/ PDC Center for High Performance Computing], KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm and stepped in during 2015 as the NeIC as Generic Area Coordinator and stayed a little longer in an advisory role to amongst other things coordinate a Nordic data services workshop.
Vitlacil is the SNIC Storage Coordinator at the Swedish National Infrastructure for Computing and is still linked with NeIC since he is the nominated Swedish member for the Nordic data management working group within NeIC's Pooling Competencies Focus Area.

