---
title: Team and Contact
menu: 50
---

= NeIC Team and Contact =
'''We are a distributed organisation consisting of administration and technical experts working at NordForsk, university IT-centres, and national e-infrastructure centers in the Nordics.'''

The NeIC is located at NordForsk in central Oslo, Stensberggata 25, 0170 Oslo, Norway, together with the Nordic organisations Nordic Innovation Centre and Nordic Energy Research.

[http://maps.google.no/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=no&geocode=+&q=stensberggata+25,+oslo&aq=+&sll=61.143235,9.09668&sspn=18.368471,53.569336&ie=UTF8&hq=+&hnear=Stensberggata+25,+Sankt+Hanshaugen,+0170+Oslo&z=16 Click here for map]


{% include person.wiki id="host" %}

Gudmund Høst is the Director of the NeIC, and is employed at [http://nordforsk.org NordForsk] in Oslo.

Prior to this he has held positions at the Research Council of Norway and the Department of Oceanography and Wave Statistics at DNV, and was also Chief Research Scientist at the Norwegian Computing Center, where he worked on statistical modelling of environmental data.

He has served as Chair of the Steering Board of Nordic Data Grid Facility, and has played a key role in the planning of the Nordic eScience Initiative. He has participated in expert committees on e-Infrastructures under the auspices of the US National Science Foundation and the European Commission, and in The Netherlands, Sweden and South Africa. He served as Chair of the e-Infrastructures Reflection Group (e-IRG) from 2011 to 2012. Høst holds a Master’s degree in Fluid Mechanics and a Ph.D. in Science and Mathematical Statistics, both from the University of Oslo.

{% include person.wiki id="barth" %}

Michaela Barth is employed at the [http://www.pdc.kth.se/ PDC Center for High Performance Computing], KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm and holds a 50% position at the the NeIC. She was educated at the University of Innsbruck and has a Ph.D. in Natural Sciences, focusing on astrophysics and grid computing.

Barth has extensive experience in project management and systems administration for distributed computing infrastructures at both the national and the European level, including her current role as national coordinator for the Partnership for Advanced Computing in Europe (PRACE) node in Sweden or her engagement within EUDAT.

{% include person.wiki id="roblitz" %}

Thomas Röblitz is located at the University of Oslo, University Center for Information Technology (USIT), and holds a 80% position at NeIC. He was educated at Humboldt University in Berlin, and holds a PhD in Computer Science focusing on Grid Resource management.

Thomas has extensive experience in researching, designing, developing and operating distributed e-Infrastructures for scientists in Norway, the Nordics and Europe. He is currently coordinating USIT's HPC compute area which serves local, national and international scientists from various desciplines.

{% include person.wiki id="wadenstein" %}

Mattias Wadenstein has a background in systems administration from the High Performance Computing Center North [http://www.hpc2n.umu.se/ HPC2N], Umeå University, and has been working for the NDGF Tier-1 as systems integrator for most of the project’s lifetime. He is now Area Coordinator and is responsible for delivering the WLCG Tier-1 services to the LHC experiments.

{% include person.wiki id="hedlund" %}

Joel Hedlund is located at the [http://www.nsc.liu.se National Supercomputer Centre (NSC)], Linköping University, and holds a 80% position at the NeIC. He was educated at Linköping University and has a Ph.D. in Bioinformatics, focusing on automated protein family definition and distributed computing. He has experience in coordination of distributed projects, community building and managing development projects for secure science gateways and persistent and accessible storage.

Hedlund is currently engaged as an Application Expert in Bioinformatics at the Swedish e-Science Research Centre.

{% include person.wiki id="pettersen" %}

Pål Pettersen is employed at NordForsk, Oslo. He works as the NeIC Administrative Coordinator.

{% include person.wiki id="behrmann" %}

Gerd Behrmann is the NeIC Systems Software Specialist, located in Copenhagen, Denmark. He has been involved with the NDGF Tier-1 since 2007, both as a storage architect and administrator of central services, and as lead developer of storage software for the Tier-1.

Behrmann holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science. His previous employments include associate professor at Aalborg University and software developer at NORDUnet.

{% include person.wiki id="pursula" %}

Antti Pursula is located at CSC - IT Center for Science Ltd in Finland and holds a 60% position at NeIC. He is the project manager of the NeIC's Tryggve project on sensitive data for the bio- and medical sciences.  He is also a project director of research infrastructures at CSC coordinating CSC’s participation in various research infrastructure projects. He has broad experience from different roles ranging from software development and customer interaction to project management and leading a service area.

{% include person.wiki id="still" %}

Dan Still is located at CSC - IT Center for Science Ltd in Finland and holds a 80% position at NeIC. He is the project manager of the NeIC's Glenna project on cloud services.  He is also a industrial relations maganer at CSC coordinating CSC’s engagements with partners in industry. 

{% include person.wiki id="bast" %}

Radovan Bast is employed in Tromsø (Norway) as a senior engineer in the High Performance Computing Group at UiT The Arctic University of Norway and contributes to advanced user and application support, code optimization and parallelization, and holds a 50 % position at NeIC. He has a PhD in theoretical chemistry and as code developer is contributing to a number of quantum chemistry programs. He enjoys learning new programming languages and approaches, and to teach programming to scientists.

{% include person.wiki id="nordstokka" %}

Kine works for NordForsk as an Advisor for the NeIC programme. She previously worked as Manager of Programmes and Partnerships at the Social Innovation Exchange, a global network for social innovation based in London. In this role she oversaw project management of European Commission projects, worked on network building and designed and implemented projects. Prior to this Kine held various positions at the Young Foundation, a think tank based in London. Her educational background is in development studies and political science. 


{% include person.wiki id="jonsson" %}

{% include person.wiki id="karpenko" %}

Dmytro Karpenko has a master degree in Computer System and Networks. Since 2007 Dmytro has been working in data processing for the LHC-experiments: ALICE and ATLAS. Currently Karpenko occupies a senior engineer position at the University centre for information technology in Oslo, where he is involved in the operation of the Oslo part of the Nordic WLCG Tier-1 center. Karpenko is also hired by NeIC to perform supervision of the grid production in the whole Nordic cloud.

{% include person.wiki id="urkedal" %}

Petter Urkedal is located at the [http://www.nbi.ku.dk/ Niels Bohr Institute], University of Copenhagen. He has been involved with the NDGF Tier-1 for many years, first maintaining the monitoring infrastructure and now also as a system administrator. He holds a Ph.D. in Theoretical Physics, and has been working with systems administration and software development since 2002.

{% include person.wiki id="larsson" %}

Jens Larsson is currently employed at the [http://www.nsc.liu.se National Supercomputing Centre] in Linköping, Sweden.

His main responsibility is for operations for SweStore – the Swedish Storage Initiative. His Tier-1 work involves operations for various support services.

{% include person.wiki id="tigerstedt" %}

Ulf Tigerstedt is employed as a grid administrator at [http://www.csc.fi CSC] in Finland. He is responsible for the Nordic NGI (NGI_NDGF) and also performs general technical work for the NDGF Tier-1.

{% include person.wiki id="pedersen" %}

Maiken Pedersen is located at the University of Oslo, [http://www.usit.uio.no/english/ University Center for Information Technology]. She has a background in high energy physics, with a PhD on Supersymmetry at the ATLAS detector at CERN. Pedersen is acting as ARC release manager, in addition to doing development tasks for the NDGF Tier-1. 

{% include person.wiki id="white" %}

John White, is located near Geneva, Switzerland and holds a 50% position as project manager with NeIC EISCAT_3D Support project. He was educated at the University of Victoria in Canada and holds a PhD in Physics focusing on LEP Standard Model measurements. He has worked since 1999 based at CERN and has experience in distributed computing since 2000 through the series of European Grid projects.

{% include person.wiki id="edelmann" %}

Erik Edelmann is employed at CSC in Finland. He has previously been involved with the Finnish Tier-2 site, assisting with the development of the CMS project. Currently his main responsibility is the ALICE experiment within the NDGF Tier-1. He is also responsible for Tier-1 accounting.

{% include person.wiki id="smirnova" %}

Oxana Smirnova is employed at the [http://www.hep.lu.se/ Particle Physics division in Lund University], Sweden. A graduate of Moscow State University, she obtained a Ph.D. in Physics from Lund University, working with the DELPHI experiment at CERN. She is a member of the ATLAS collaboration at CERN, and is one of the developers of the distributed grid computing model.

Smirnova is also one of the initiators and early users of the NorduGrid ARC middleware. She serves as the CERN Liaison at the NeIC, representing the NDGF Tier-1 vis-à-vis the Worldwide LHC Computing Grid.

{% include person.wiki id="soettrup" %}

Christian Ulrik Søttrup is located at the Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen. He has been involved with the NDGF Tier-1 since 2010. He is also a developer on the ARC grid software since 2006 and a systems administrator. He holds a Masters in Computing Science from the University of Copenhagen in 2005, and has been working with software development since 1996.

{% include person.wiki id="li" %}

Xiaxi Li is located at the Computational Biology Unit (CBU), University of Bergen, Norway. He is working in the NeIC's Tryggve project on sensitive data for the bio- and medical sciences. He has a background as a software engineer, and got the master degree in Software Engineering of Distributed Systems at KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm.

{% include person.wiki id="freyhult" %}

Pontus has worked in various roles within the fields of software development and operations and offers expertise in many different computer-centric fields, including performance.

His current focus is working with solutions for large scale storage to provide short term as well as long term storage for biological data.

{% include person.wiki id="hagberg" %}

Jonas Hagberg is located ad Scilifelab Dalarna, where he isy the manager of the system development team a the National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden - NBIS. A member of the Tryggve team and was the project manager and system architect of the Mosler secure computing system. Jonas has a MSc in bioinformatics at Uppsala University, and have worked both in research and in goverment agencies in Sweden. 

{% include person.wiki id="jareborg" %}

Niclas Jareborg is located at SciLifeLab in Stockholm, Sweden where he is the Data Manager at the National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden - NBIS. He is the system owner representative of the Mosler secure computing system for research using sensitive data, and a member of the Tryggve project. 
Niclas has a PhD in Microbiology from Uppsala University, and over the years he has worked with bio/informatics, line management, Lean, and Agile in both academia and industry.

{% include person.wiki id="viklund" %}

Johan Viklund is located at SciLifeLab in Uppsala, Sweden where he is working as a systems developer. His backround is as a bioinformaticion and he has a PhD in Molecular Evolution. In NeIC he is involved in the Tryggve project for sensitive data.

{% include person.wiki id="tornroos" %}

Juha is the guy who knows what is the difference of HTTP status codes 301 and 302, what is the fourth layer in OSI model, what is the opaque pointer and why it can not rain for two days in a row. He has a MSc in applied mathematics and computer science, solid background in software development and hands on experience of almost every modern programming language.
Juha works at CSC - IT Center for Science with 50/50 allocation both for NeIC Tryggve project and for the Open Research Initiative (ATT-hanke) in Finland.

{% include person.wiki id="syed" %}

M.Sc. Computer science, with over 15 years of experience in IT from Oracle in the US to building large supercomputers across Europe at SGI (Silicon graphics) including Life sciences and metrological verticals. Ali has built many XL computing installations at many of large financial, healthcare and production institutions in Europe. Currently working at the Danish national life sciences super computer and Tryggve, working to build next generation workflows and cloudification of life sciences research.

{% include person.wiki id="leinonen" %}

Jaakko has some 15 years of experience in desinging, running and managing systems with high levels of privacy, security and confidentiality. He is currently looking after a still-in-development cloud environment to meet the Finnish regulations on sensitive data processing. Jaakko is also operating the PRACE (European HPC infrastructure) resources at CSC in Finland.

{% include person.wiki id="azab" %}

Abdulrahman Azab, a head Engineer at the Department of Informatics, University of Oslo, and a senior lecturer at the Department of Computer Engineering and Control Systems, Mansoura University, Egypt. Main fields of expertise are High Performance Computing, High Throughput Computing, Cloud Computing, Artificial Intelligence, Database Management Systems, Microcontrollers and PLCs.

{% include person.wiki id="iozzi" %}

Maria Francesca Iozzi, PhD in Computational Chemistry. I am group leader of the research service group aiming at developing, deployng and operating services designed to fulfill IT-requirements in research. We are working in close collaboration with NorStore and we are also partner of several European and National Projects. Strong focus is on the development of portals for high performance computing, based on Galaxy tool but strongly  customised to meet the needs of different researching areas and completely integrate with our HPC facilities. I am leading the operation of the TSD (Service for Sensitive Data) developed and deployed at USIT/UiO. TSD is a platform that allow storing, computing analysing and sharing of sensitive research data in compliance with the norwegian law. 

{% include person.wiki id="hochheim" %}

25 years experience in R&D High Performance Computing, computing operations, system administration and consulting at global enterprises such as Ericsson, Cap Gemini, Nokia and Renesas Mobile Corporation.
Currently at Technical University of Denmark, Department of Systems Biology, Center for Biological Sequence Analysis, as Systems Administrator on the National Life Sciences Supercomputer (aka. Computerome).

{% include person.wiki id="chmura" %}

Piotr works mainly for software provisioning tasks in Tryggve project, developing especially the Tools and Resource Registry at ELIXIR.DK. He is located at Center for Protein Research at University of Copenhagen.

{% include person.wiki id="alarsson" %}

Anders is part of the Tryggve project team. Systems developer at NBIS in Uppsala, Sweden. PhD in Systematic Biology from Evolutionary Biology Center at Uppsala University. Also involved in Elixir Local EGA project and European PhenoMeNal project.

{% include person.wiki id="haziza" %}

Frédéric received his PhD in Computer Science from Uppsala University in the field of Algorithmic Program Verification.
Prior to joining NBIS, Frédéric worked for UPPMAX, where he was involved in setting up Smog, the first cloud service at UPPMAX, as well as bioimg.org, a catalogue of life science virtual machine images.

At NBIS, Frédéric is working with OpenStack deployments, µ-Mosler, as well as front-end developments and a new Python course.

{% include person.wiki id="wikfeldt" %}

Thor Wikfeldt is located at the [https://www.pdc.kth.se/ PDC center for high-performance computing] at KTH, Stockholm, where he works as an application expert in molecular dynamics, 
and holds a 50% position at NeIC where he works in the CodeRefinery project. 
Thor obtained his PhD in physics from Stockholm University in 2011. 

{% include person.wiki id="vathsavayi" %}

Sri Harsha Vathsavayi is part of the CodeRefinery project. He received his PhD in software engineering from Tampere University of Technology in 2016. He is currently working as software specialist at CSC-IT Center for Science, Finland. 

{% include person.wiki id="sabryr" %}

Sabry Razick is member of the CodeRefinery project. He is working at the University of Oslo


{% include person.wiki id="denissov" %}

Nikolai Denissov is doing Web Software Development for various projects at [https://www.csc.fi/ CSC-IT Center for Science] in Greater Helsinki area, Finland. CodeRefinery project member since 2016.