---
title: GEN
description: Generic e-infrastructure services
---

= GEN - Generic Area =

Coordinator: [mailto:caela@pdc.kth.se Michaela Barth], PDC, Sweden (parental leave) <br/>
Acting coordinator: [mailto:dejan@pdc.kth.se Dejan Vitlacil], PDC, Sweden


The Generic Area deals with development of tools and services applicable 
to a broad range of users. The national e-infrastructure providers 
constitute the main stakeholders and participants in the activities 
within this area.

The Generic Area plays an important role in the cross-fertilization of 
ideas between NeIC areas. Some examples of opportunities within the 
Generic Area include Nordic HPC collaboration, federated cloud services, 
accounting, and data services. The Generic Area Coordinator interacts 
closely with the national and Nordic level e-infrastructure providers 
in the development of this activity area.

As one of the NeIC strategic ares, the Generic Area takes care of 
e-infrastructure activities; this includes initiating and executing 
technical projects for development and deployment of e-infrastructure 
solutions. Projects are developed in partnership with national 
e-infrastructure providers or user communities with national status. 
Co-funding partners participate on a cost-sharing basis. 

Outgoing from the documented needs in the Cognitus project mapping the 
scientific case in the Nordic countries, NeIC will continue to create 
innovation in the Nordic e-infrastructure landscape and expand on known 
and broadly used high-quality solutions within generic technologies as 
is the focus for the Generic Area. 

The Generic Area is continuisly reacting to project proposals with the 
main criteria in the decision of supporting them being the expected 
benefit and the added value for scientific research and its supporting 
e-infrastructure. 

Another focus of the Generic area encourage Nordic e-infrastructure 
providers to share knowledge and sync on their strategies and planned 
new procurements allowing for more community specific resources and a 
common Nordic roadmap in meeeting the requirements of scientific 
research on e-infrastructure and more generally to facilitate 
communication between different potential partners while maintaining 
open and transparent processes at all levels.

