---
title: NT1
description: Nordic WLCG Tier-1 facility
---

= NT1 - The Nordic distributed WLCG Tier-1 facility =
Coordinator: [mailto:maswan@hpc2n.umu.se Mattias Wadenstein], HPC2N, Sweden

== Scientific Research ==

=== WLCG ===
NDGF Tier1 is one of 11 regional computing centres of the
[http://wlcg.web.cern.ch/ Worldwide LHC Computing Grid] – the huge
international e-infrastructure built to provide 
computing and storage for the [http://home.web.cern.ch/ CERN]. This Nordic solution is unique in 
being distributed across four countries: Denmark, Finland, Norway and 
Sweden. ([http://wlcg-rebus.cern.ch/apps/pledges/resources/ Click here] to list all WLCG resources)

=== ALICE ===
[http://aliceinfo.cern.ch/Public/Welcome.html ALICE] is one of the experiments at the LHC, largely dedicated to studies 
of quark-gluon plasma in heavy ion collisions. It uses NDGF Tier1 together 
with six other Tier1 centres across the planet. All four NDGF countries 
host ALICE computing and storage resources.

=== ATLAS ===
[http://atlas.web.cern.ch/Atlas/Collaboration/ ATLAS] is the largest LHC experiment, dedicated to searches of new particles 
and phenomena in proton-proton collisions. NDGF Tier1 is one of 10 Tier1 
centres used by ATLAS. Three  NDGF countries, Denmark, Norway and Sweden, 
host ATLAS computing and storage.

== Services ==

=== dCache ===
Storage of NDGF Tier1 is distributed across many computing centres. The 
dCache system , developed with contribution from NeIC, takes care of 
orchestrating data stored on disks and tapes all over Scandinavia. It also 
accepts data from CERN and other Tier1 centres. 

=== Operations ===
A number of additional services are necessary for a Grid center operations. 
These include VOMS, FTS, BDII, SAM tests, and of course smooth network 
services. NDGF Tier1 uses these products as provided by their respective 
developers and [http://www.egi.eu/ EGI].  

 

[https://wiki.neic.no/wiki/Category:NT1 NT1 internal wiki]

Contact us: <br/>
[mailto:maswan@hpc2n.umu.se Mattias Wadenstein] NT1 Coordinator <br/>
[mailto:oxana.smirnova@hep.lu.se Oxana Smirnova] CERN Liaison
