---
title: Publications
description: Official documents produced by NeIC.
---

= Publications =

; [http://www.nordforsk.org/en/publications/publications_container/cognitus-a-science-case-for-high-performance-computing-in-the-nordic-region Cognitus: A Science Case for HPC in the Nordic Region]
: This report has been prepared for the Nordic e-Infrastructure Collaboration (NeIC) Board to facilitate future decisions in the Nordic region in the area of high performance computing and related topics. An external expert, Dr. Robert Pennington, Deputy Director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign was engaged as a special advisor to NeIC for the project. He consulted with Nordic researchers, Nordic HPC systems staff, NeIC staff, as well as other researchers who have been engaged in similar activities in other countries.

; [[/media/neic-flyer-2013.pdf|Flyer - NeIC Facts]]

; [[/media/neic-gen-folder-140516.pdf|Quick facts on the Tryggve Project]]
: Collaboration on sensitive data Tryggve is a three-year project to establish a Nordic platform for collaboration on sensitive data, funded by NeIC and the ELIXIR nodes in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. wiki.neic.no/wiki/Tryggve

; [[/media/neic-gen-folder-140516.pdf|Quick facts on NeIC Generic Area]]
: Read more on: SGAS Maintenance Project B2Share Nordic Nordic Cloud Cognitus Nordic Resource Sharing NeGI Support Pan-Nordic Operational Security and Incident Response Framework Nordic High Performance Computing (NHPC) evaluation Nordic use of PRACE evaluation

; <a href="https://www.pdc.kth.se/newsletter/2013-2/pdc-newsletter-2013-no.-2-1/at_download/file"> NeIC article in PDC newsletter </a>
: Read 'Inaugural NeIC Conference' in PDC Center for High Performance Computing's Magazine 2013 no 2

; [http://issuu.com/07interaktiv/docs/nfm_en/25 NeIC in the NordForsk Magazine 2013]
: NordForsk tells about NeIC in the yearly Magazine.

; <a href="https://www.pdc.kth.se/newsletter/2013-1/pdc-newsletter-2013-no.-1/at_download/file"> The Niceties of NeIC </a>
: Michaela Barth has written the article The Niceties of NeIC in PDC Center for High Performance Computing's Magazine 2013 no 1. Read page 14.

; [[/media/2014-prace-report-final.pdf|Evaluation of the Nordic Participation in PRACE]]
: The NeIC has commissioned an independent evaluation of the Nordic use of PRACE.

; [[/media/13-32-05-NeIC-Strategy-131008.pdf|NeIC Strategy]]
: The NeIC strategy includes vision, mission statement, tasks and strategic goals
